We had a large number of vets, but they were all in
individual companies. We had the Army, the Air
Force, and we did not have a Marine Corps unit, but
we had Army and Air Force both, and I don't think we
even had Navy units at that time. But I was on the
battalion staff and then became battalion
commander in my senior
year.
It was one of the battalions in the wing. All right.
Compared to all the other ordinary Corps outfits.
What was different about the way y'all got fish and
sophomores and all? We didn't have, we didn't have
any great deal of distinction. Once you got off the
brave ground, went back to the dorms, you were all
just the same. So y'all didn't have any paddles?
No. And no, no freshmen came to take care of your
room? No. No, you were back, Because that was, you
know, that was sort of what we didn't want. And you
were older than average, that outfit was. Yeah.
Now, where were you quartered then? Over in the
regular Corps area, what you call the quad now, I
think. Did you all march into the dining hall?
Marched in, we did everything the Corps did. And we
were just another unit in the Corps at that time,
and had our own flags, our own companies, the
battalions and the wing and it wasn't that very
well. I mean, it was we it was like you're living two
lives. You got on the dress and formed a company you
were military. When you got back, you were just
there's no distinction of what you had on the
shoulder didn't make didn't make any difference.
You're all the same. For you veterans, were there
ever any
special events, I'm trying to search for words
here, where you as a former enlisted man and a
former officer, did that ever matter after the war
here on the campus? No. I had, in fact, one of the
other fellows, and I should have mentioned while I
was doing this, was a marine lieutenant with me in
China and all the time I was there. He was my next
officer, first officer. He was a lieutenant. I
guess he finally made first lieutenant. His name
was Howard Whitney and I came back to A&M after I got
out when I came back to work here over visiting the
department and there was Howard Whitney there and
I'd served you know nearly a year with him in China
but he was another very good
member of the department and very useful and
helpful and I think he went to he left here and went
to I believe the University of Minnesota
And this arrangement within the Corps for the
special veterans' outfits worked well? As far as I
could tell, it worked very well. I never heard of
any problems we created. The commandant of the
Corps at that time was General Boatner. Describe
him and his leadership style.
He was a tough cookie.
The only chewing out I ever got from a from a general
who who had good reason to do so I was a battalion
exec at the time and we were in a drill out on the main
drill field I don't know which one I'd forgotten
which one it was but I always had a chewing gum had a
heavy chewing gum and I happened to have some in my
mouth I knew better but uh When we walked by, he saw
it and invited me into his office the next day. And
along with, at that time, our battalion
commander,
whose name was Smith or Smythe, and he chewed both
of us out. Chewed me out for chewing gum, and I'd
known better. I'd been in the Marine Corps for
nearly three years, and I knew you weren't
supposed to do that. I knew you weren't supposed to
do that, according to him, and I did. And then he got
ahold of Smythe because he was my superior
officer, and let him have it for a while. Now, I've
not heard anybody describe Boatner physically.
As I recall, he was not an imposing figure. He was
average height, or maybe not quite average
height. He was a little heavier than, wasn't quite
as trim as some would like to be. But he had a
definite military bearing, and in a lot of ways,
the demeanor No, it wasn't. I was gonna say he was
like Earl Rudder, but he wasn't like Earl Rudder in
his relationships to people, but he was, there was
no question who was in the boss. Now, when he was,
uh, chewing you out, was he loud? Yeah, he was
pretty loud. He'd get loud? Okay. He'd, uh, he got
quite impressive. Strong language? bad
language, but he, I think he was fully capable of
doing that. All right, would, if something
happened during, out on the drill field or
anything, did he ever yell at people? Not that I
recall. He may have yelled at some of his officers.
But it was clear, clear who was in charge? Yeah, it
was. He was, I think he went to put down that revolt
in And everybody I've talked to said they were not
surprised. No. All
right. Did you have a car? When did you get a car? I
got a car about four months after I got married in
1950. Oh, okay. None of the times I've been here. I
never could afford a car. Uh, the, uh, so you
weren't involved in, in much of anything off
campus. No. Uh, and, uh, did you, did you and your
friends attend any religious services while you
were students? Occasionally, not, not, uh,
diligently, not, not every Sunday you went to
church, but, uh, on occasion we would go to church.
was he went to different ones okay and they were all
at the north gate or south side yeah they're all in
both these areas did you by by chance know mr cashin
i did not know him well i had seen him but i didn't
really know him i knew who he was and knew what he was
doing you know when here now jim would have been
just about a classmate of yours he would have been i
think he was a year ahead of me okay uh Now, Red and I
officiated football together for many, many
years. But you didn't know him? I didn't know him
then. Jim, of course, was playing football. And
Red, I think, started then to play football, but
never did go very far with it. Let's see, here's an
almost superfluous. Did you and your buddies know
about steam tunnels? No. I don't know where, in
fact, I never did know really much about steam
tunnels. I still don't. I know that they're here.
Do you know, did you know, do you know anything you
can share about secret fraternities?
No. No, and that's not because I'd Wouldn't share
it if I did, but I just don't know. I have heard that
there were secret fraternities, but I don't know
of any. There's one that apparently goes all the
way back at least to Mr. Evans' time. Is that right?
The swastikas, and their symbol was the novel, and
they were using that a heck of a long time before
Adolf Hitler was. And as far as I can learn, Now, I'm
drawing the conclusion here, so it may be an error.
They were the TTs, the true Texans. And I don't know
whether they were anymore or not, but apparently
the purpose of each of them, and the only purpose,
was to get their members in the key core leadership
positions, to have our guys in charge. That was it.
Nothing ulterior, nothing... What were the
major, for you and your acquaintances, what were
the major... uh indulgences smoking and drinking
and so forth of course you learned to smoke as soon
as you got in the service if you didn't smoke before
you got in you did eventually soon then but that was
it uh smoking you're drinking beer smoking uh what
kind of cigarettes well uh what was the favorite
brands the the big brands that time were camels and
lucky strike which had come back from the war by
that time Cigars?
Not many cigar smokers. Pipe smokers. I smoked a
pipe for many, many years. And that was supposed to
be intellectual, wasn't it? Oh, yeah. Well, I
waited until I got intellectual before I started
smoking a pipe. Were there any Aggies that rolled
their own much? Quite a few. Well, most of us out in
the... Again, this is country ball. You grew up.
You smoked out there. You rolled your own. But once
you got here... Did country boys continue to do
that? Poor ones did. It costs much more to buy the
ready rolls. Did Aggies chew tobacco or dip snuff?
Not like they do now. I think there's more of it now.
It sure seems to me to be than there was back when I
was going to school. Then in alcohol, beer, what
favorite varieties? You had Pearl and Southern
Select and Grand Prize. Grand Prize. Is that the
one out of Louisiana? There was one that came out of
Louisiana? Falstaff. Falstaff, yeah. That was
the other one. That was about it. Then they had
slits. But Pearl was the one that I'd say at least
the one I knew was the primary. If somebody drank a
mixed drink, what was it likely to be? A salty dog
was a... because it was something you could just
sort of put the gin and a little ice. And if somebody
poured something into a Coke bottle, what did they
add? Probably a bourbon if you put it in a Coke
bottle. It was probably a cheap bourbon that you
could find. Did any of you even know, had you ever
seen marijuana? You know, I still have never seen
marijuana that I know of. Did you all even know the
word? No. Didn't know there was such thing. And
cocaine. Cocaine. Never heard of that. I'm not
much younger than you, but a little. And the first
time I ever heard of any of that was this two-bit
movie of marijuana, and I can't remember what it
was called, but supposedly if you smoked it, it
made you completely insane. And that was it. And it
was a dreary, dreary... I don't think I have
ever... seen or been anywhere where marijuana was
smoked during that time or really not since then.
What I do remember is that when you'd have a penny
ante poker game, everybody that could afford them
got a twofer cigar, lit it up, and the smoke was so
thick in there that you could hardly see the cards.
Now, would Joel ever do that in a dorm room? You do it
in the dorm. So smoking was allowed in the dorm.
Whiskey Bridge was in high gear then. Did anybody
ever get gypped at Whiskey Bridge? I've never
heard of any mention of that. Not that I know of. It
was always afforded. How common was it when you
veterans were in the dormitory, how common was it
for somebody to bring alcohol into the dorm? Very
uncommon. We never did it. I never knew anybody
that did it. As far as you know, were y'all
inspected the same way the non-veteran corps
members were in the dorm room? No. They didn't
inspect? No. But y'all went out wearing the
uniforms for the reviews and all that. We wore
uniforms every day. Yeah, yeah. And was there
anything on your uniform that indicated you were a
veteran? No, unless you wore your ribbons. How
common was that? Pretty common. In all parades, we
were supposed to wear all of our ribbons. Were
there some people, here's a serious question,
were there some people in the Corps then that had
earned some high decorations for bravery? Silver
Star. Okay. Yeah, that's number three. No
Distinguished Service Cross or Congressional
Medal. No, not that I recall. All right, and he, had
he already graduated? Okay.
He had a lot of
medals, well, Good
conduct and then your theater ribbons.
Congressional unit citations and that sort of
thing. Did you Pacific veterans ever tease the
European veterans that y'all had done more than
they had? No, they were a bunch of candies up over
there. They didn't have to slog through all those
jungles and do that sort of thing. No, it was always
a lot of talk back and forth about who really won the
war and which one was the bad war to win. I had a
serious question here. Compare the way the
typical veteran who served in the Pacific felt
then and has continued to feel about his former
enemy compared to the way the European theater
veteran felt and feels about his enemy. I think
that those of us that fought the Japanese in the
Pacific will never get over it. I don't think the
same feeling really holds for the european group i
mean maybe it's because they fought a whole bunch
of different you know a whole bunch of different
countries and not the same i don't know what it was
but uh we uh we developed a very healthy dislike for
the japanese uh i agree with your i have that
summation i agree with do you do why uh
I don't know, maybe it was because, really
starting with Pearl Harbor, the fact that they got
the reputation of being a sneaky bunch of stabbers
in the back that came in out of nowhere and started
the whole conflagration, and it was up to us then to
go try to bring it back again. One day I was
challenged by a young Japanese-American about
how awful, awful, awful we were to drop that bomb,
and I responded with this question. Do you think if
the Japanese leadership of that era had had that
bomb that they would have dropped it on us? The
conversation ended then. Well, I thought then,
and I still think now, that that was the best
solution that could have come at that time. Saved
lives. It saved not only ours, but theirs as well.
If we had, if we really, and we were in the process,
as I told you to begin with, loading up in Guam to go
into Japan, And had we gone in, it was going to be a
bloodbath on both sides. Well, I look what little I
know about Iwo Jima and Okinawa. It seemed to me the
closer the American troops got to the mainland of
Japan, the harder the Japanese got. And the higher
the losses, the more suicidal attacks and so
forth. Did you all spend much time, you veterans,
spend much time talking about the war in your
student days? Did you all? Not a whole lot. You
didn't replay much, did you? We didn't replay it
much. We were just, I think most of us, just sort of
glad it was over with and glad to get on. Did you
sometimes tease each other about which branch of
the service had really done the... Even in the
Marine Corps, which boot camp did you go to? Oh. If
you went to one of those candy... places of Paris
Island that didn't amount to that. If you didn't go
to San Diego and go through that, that's what we
thought. But that was, you know, it's always just
like schools, I'm sure. All right, give some
examples of how did your Aggie pride and feelings,
how did they get deeper during these student days?
Well, it was in some ways, I think, at least as far as
my experience is concerned, it was sort of a follow
on to my experiences in the Marine Corps. By the
time I had finished boot camp in the Marine Corps, I
was convinced we were the toughest rascals in the
world and that there was nobody can stand up to us.
It sort of felt the same way come day in and day out.
We were not the most prestigious place in the
world, but we had the spirit, we were the good guys.
And it was something that after a while, you sort of
get to where you're defending the flag against
anyone who wants to mistreat you or say anything
derogatory about A&M. And it sort of builds on
that. And it lasts a long time. I need to take a
break. Yeah. How did your Aggie loyalties and
fondness and commitment and debt, how did that
begin to develop? I think it's, well, one of the
things I think is that you develop an esprit de
corps because of some of the hardships you go
through that sort of bonds you to not only the other
individuals but to the organization. I've always
felt that one of the luckiest things that I've been
had happen to me is go to a poor little country
school where you didn't really have a whole lot to
go into the Marine Corps which was considered to be
the you've got what was left over from the Navy and
nobody paid that, you know, they didn't really
have appropriations in your equipment and all
that sort of thing. So you did the best you could
with what you had. And to a certain extent, it
started that way with A&M. So that I think was sort
of what helped to develop the esprit de corps that
I've had with A&M and that I think many others have
had that this is a tough place. And did you realize
that was developing while you were an
undergraduate here? Probably not. Probably not.
I just, you know, it happened in retrospect. I was
just sort of thinking about the good consequences
that come from what you consider at the time to be
sort of hard times. It's good for you. Those two
years in the Corps. So you went to Silver Taps then.
Oh, yes. Do you remember Muster as an
undergraduate? Not much. I know I did go to Muster
my senior year. I do recall that. But I think that's
about the only one that I went to while I was an
undergraduate. And where was it held? Do you
remember? Steps of the MSC? Or what? No, it wasn't
finished yet. The MSC wasn't finished until 50. I
think it was Gine Hall. Okay. Okay. At that time.
What about Final Review, your senior year? Well,
Final Review was a big deal. Describe that. What
made it a big deal? Well, of course, that was the
changing of the guard, as it were, of the juniors
getting to become seniors. And the senior year, as
I said,
having the... turn over your responsibilities in
the wing to your next one that was coming up was very
impressive. It was a very moving experience for me
to find a review. How did you feel that previous
year when you put on those boots for the first time
officially? I thought that that was probably a
great time of my life to be able to finally get to
wear a pair of senior boots, and be a member of the
leading class at Texas A&M for the next year. How
much did they cost, do you remember? Well, of
course, I bought mine secondhand. Sold them again
when I got through. Remember what you paid for
them? I think I paid $52 for them. And they fit
reasonably well? Reasonably well. I went on a trip
one time with my roommate. He and I decided on
Friday afternoon that we were going to see, he knew
a couple of girls up, and he was from Monroe,
Louisiana. And he had a girlfriend up right across
the line in Arkansas. So we were going up to visit.
We didn't take anything but boots and boot pants,
and that was the most miserable weekend I've ever
spent. Old wool pants and hot and steamy and old
boots. I was glad to get home and get to take those
off. No, but they were a visible mark of you've
gotten somewhere. And that ring, how special was
that? Very special, still is, even though I've
shrunk down now to where I have to wrap it with tape
to keep it on my finger, but I've worn it
continuously ever since then. Do you remember
what it cost? Exactly. I think, again, it was in the
range of between, I think in the $45 to $50 range,
which was a lot of money. Of course, it's not the
only thing we bought for my grandson's ring, and I
think it was $375 or something like that. Do you
have any ring stories to tell? You lost it or
somebody spotted that ring on your finger? That
happens to me all the time, particularly, I think,
because it's worn down so much. And the ones that I
get that I always want to come up to are the new
graduates, the ones that have gotten their ring in
the last year or two. They say, is mine going to look
like that one of these days? What did you do to get it
all worn down like that? Well, I just kept it on my
finger all the time. Have you ever had it spotted
somewhere on the other side of the world? Yes. in
Africa. We were down in Nairobi and of all places.
Of course they got bars everywhere. We were in a bar
and I happened to have my hand up on that and the guy
sitting next to me said, that sure looks like an
Aggie ring. And of course he had one too. He had
lived there for several years and of course I guess
that was the first one he'd seen in a while. All
right, Aggie, at your final, final review, who
came that was special? Well, my family, my mother
and dad, did not really travel a whole lot. We were
country folks and didn't go, and they did not come,
but I had, oh, let's see, I had one of my brothers,
two of my brothers were here. for a final review,
and their family. So it was a... And then
commencement was held where?
Outdoors? I think it was outdoors. I really do. Do
you remember who the speaker was? No. Wasn't that
year with Eisenhower? I don't think so. And what
kind of, What kind of world did you think you were
going out into? If you recall, 1950 was not a good
year. Jobs were hard to find. Even graduate
positions, graduate school student positions
were getting hard to find, you know,
assistantships and fellowships and so forth. So I
thought that, you know, I had better, I wanted to go
ahead and go ahead and finish up getting at least a
master's degree and hopefully going to have a PhD
sometime and say that opportunity to do that you
know that field and I didn't I didn't have jobs
waiting for me so I got an assistantship in the ag
eco department and I was very happy to get that
under John McNeely and that was for the fall of 1950
for the fall of that fall and I worked we developed
the uh a model livestock auction system where we
got to travel all over the state and look at all the
livestock auction sales and at that time 1950 was
the time when Cattle prices were very volatile,
and we had people that were making a living by
buying 500 head of cattle here and selling them
over here the next day. And they were wearing the
cattle out, just moving them from one auction to
the other. And when did you learn you were going to
get that assistantship? How long before
commencement? Not until after commencement.
When I left, I didn't really have a job. waiting for
me. I told him that he was looking into it, but then
shortly after that, he said, you know, he had money
for it. You remember what the stipend was? $125 a
month. But you, let's see, no, you'd used up your GI
Bill. Used up the GI Bill. Yeah, yeah. And so that
began in the fall of 50. Yeah. Where were you, what
did you think when you heard about the invasion of
of Korea by North Korea. I began to wonder if I'd
really made a mistake in going ahead and getting
that commission because it looked like they were
going to call up a bunch of us who had served less
than four or five years in the military and was
quite concerned. And they did call up a number of
people that I graduated with. In fact, my roommate
was called up. He had served only a very brief time
in the Air Force. And he was called up for the Korean
War. Now, your commission was Army or Air Force?
Air Force. Air Force. But non-pilot.
I probably was the oldest second lieutenant ever
in the Air Force. I got my commission, went into the
reserves, never went to a meeting or anything like
that. And so after about three years, they called
me and said, Are you really still on the books as a
second? We don't have second lieutenants that
spend two or three years in rank. We need to get you
either active or get you discharged. I said, well,
obviously I'm not doing anything in here, so let's
just go ahead and discharge. All right, so
summarize your, was it two years working on your
master's as assistant? No, it only took a year. A
year. And by the time I was married, I got married
between the time of finals and graduation. All
right, now I have this special...